Docs - Azure VM auto-discovery (#22752)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/server-access/guides/azure-discovery.mdx

---

> title: Configure Teleport to Automatically Enroll Azure Virtual Machines (Preview)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Automatically Discover Azure Virtual Machines (Preview)
```
Suggested to shorten the title and echo the "Discovery" usage from the sidebar

> description: How to configure Teleport to automatically enroll Azure Virtual Machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to configure Teleport to automatically enroll Azure virtual machines.
```
If Azure Virtual Machines is the official product name, though, we should capitalize it everywhere

---

The Teleport Discovery Service can connect to Azure and automatically
discover and enroll virtual machines matching configured labels. It will then

> execute an install script on these discovered instances that will install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
execute a script on these discovered instances that will install
```
Since the rest of the sentence indicates what the script will do

Teleport, start it and join the cluster.

In this scenario, Teleport Discovery Service uses an Azure invite token with a
long time-to-live (TTL), so that new instances can be discovered and added to

> the Teleport cluster for the lifetime of the token.

Reviewer: I think this detail is too low-level for the intro. Is there another place we can put it? As an alternative, is there a way to make this more general so users can understand at a high level how the feature works?

For example, I think we can put the detail about the TTL within one of the body sections.

Author: Step 1 covers the same info as part of the sample token file, so I think we can just remove this paragraph entirely. Let me know if you want to bring it back somewhere else.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- Azure subscription with virtual machines and permissions to create and attach
managed identities.

> - Azure virtual machines running Ubuntu/Debian/RHEL if making use of the

Reviewer: Is this for servers you'd like to join to the Teleport cluster as well as the Discovery Service?

default Teleport install script. (For other Linux distributions, you can
install Teleport manually.)

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/5. Create an Azure invite token

> When discovering Azure Virtual Machines, Teleport makes use of Azure invite tokens for

Reviewer: In some places, "Azure Virtual Machines" is capitalized. In others, it's not.

> authenticating joining Nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authenticating joining SSH Service instances.
```
We're moving away from the "Node" language (see the core concepts page: https://goteleport.com/docs/core-concepts/).

Create a file called `token.yaml`:

```yaml
# token.yaml
kind: token
version: v2
metadata:
  # the token name is not a secret because instances must prove that they are
  # running in your Azure subscription to use this token
  name: azure-discovery-token
  # set a long expiry time, as the default for tokens is only 30 minutes
  expires: "3000-01-01T00:00:00Z"
spec:
  # use the minimal set of roles required
  roles: [Node]

  # set the join method allowed for this token
  join_method: azure

  azure:
    allow:
    # specify the Azure subscription which Nodes may join from
    - subscription: "123456789"
```

Assign the `subscription` field to your Azure subscription ID.
Add the token to the Teleport cluster with:

```code
$ tctl create -f token.yaml
```

## Step 2/5. Configure IAM permissions for Teleport

The Teleport Discovery Service needs Azure IAM permissions to discover and register Azure virtual machines.

### Configure an Azure service principal

> (!docs/pages/includes/server-access/azure-configure-service-principal.mdx!)

Reviewer: Unless we have plans to use this partial elsewhere, I would suggest inlining it, since we only use it in one place.

`/subscriptions/<subscription>`, allowing the role to be assigned at any
resource scope within that subscription or the subscription scope itself. If
you want to further limit the `assignableScopes`, you can use a resource group
`/subscriptions/<subscription>/resourceGroups/<group>` or a management group
`/providers/Microsoft.Management/managementGroups/<group>` instead.

Now go to the [Subscriptions](https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_Billing/SubscriptionsBlade) page and select a subscription.

Click on *Access control (IAM)* in the subscription and select *Add > Add custom role*:
<Figure align="left">
![IAM custom role](../../../img/database-access/guides/azure/add-custom-role@2x.png)
</Figure>

In the custom role creation page, click the *JSON* tab and click *Edit*, then paste the JSON example
and replace the subscription in `assignableScopes` with your own subscription id:
<Figure align="left">
![Create JSON role](../../../img/server-access/guides/azure/vm-create-role-from-json@2x.png)
</Figure>

### Create a role assignment for the Teleport Discovery Service principal

(!docs/pages/includes/server-access/azure-assign-service-principal.mdx!)

> ## Step 3/5. Install Teleport on the Discovery Node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3/5. Install the Teleport Discovery Service
```

<Admonition type="tip">

> If you plan on running the Discovery Service on the same Node already running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you plan on running the Discovery Service on a host that is already running
```

another Teleport service (Auth or Proxy, for example), you can skip this step.

</Admonition>

Install Teleport on the virtual machine that will run the Discovery Service:

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

## Step 4/5. Configure Teleport to discover Azure instances

If you are running the Discovery Service on its own host, the service requires a
valid invite token to connect to the cluster. Generate one by running the
following command against your Teleport Auth Service:

```code
$ tctl tokens add --type=discovery
```

> Save the generated token in `/tmp/token` on the Node (virtual machine) that will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save the generated token in `/tmp/token` on the virtual machine that will
```

       - "env": "prod"
      install: # optional section when default-installer is used.
        script_name: "default-installer"
    - types: ["vm"] 
      tags:
       - "env": "devel"
      install:
        script_name: "devel-installer"
```

---

The `installer` resource has the following templating options:

- `{{ .MajorVersion }}`: the major version of Teleport to use when
  installing from the repository.
- `{{ .PublicProxyAddr }}`: the public address of the Teleport Proxy Service to
connect to.

These can be used as follows:

```yaml
kind: installer
metadata:
  name: default-installer
spec:
  script: |
    echo {{ .PublicProxyAddr }}
    echo Teleport-{{ .MajorVersion }}
version: v1
```

Which, when retrieved by the Systems Manager document will evaluate to a script
with the following contents:

```sh
echo teleport.example.com
echo Teleport-(=teleport.version=)
```

The default installer will take the following actions:

- Add an official Teleport repository to supported Linux distributions.
- Install Teleport via `apt` or `yum`.
- Generate the Teleport config file and write it to `/etc/teleport.yaml`.
- Enable and start the Teleport service.

## Troubleshooting

> (!docs/pages/includes/server-access/azure-troubleshooting.mdx!)

Reviewer: I'd also recommend inlining this partial unless we have plans to use it in another guide
